The studies have globally been conducted on the connection link between Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) and economic growth and they have been widely acknowledged unlike between FDI and unemployment rate. This paper aims to examine the impact of FDI on the unemployment rate from 2005 to 2021. The macroeconomic stability and the labor market of an economy have been identified by the literature, as some of the main aspects that are analyzed by foreign investors before deciding for a future host country. The reverse impact is also mentioned by the researcher who provide strong evidence supporting the hypothesis that FDI bring important benefits to a host country. Consequently, studying the interdependencies between the inflow of FDI and the unemployment becomes of high importance for each country which shows increased interest in attracting FDI. The ***ordinary least squares method*** is employed to analyze the data in this study. `Findings indicate that FDI helped reduce the unemployment rate and increased the gross domestic product (GDP).` (to be proved) **A 1% increase in FDI caused a decrease of 0.009% in unemployment and an increase of 1.219% in GDP.** (Extracted from the reference, will change after finishing the analysis process.) These findings are highly important in policy formulation and implementation. The government should be concerned about FDI, which can benefit the economy. FDI can also create more domestic jobs and intensify the economic growth of the country.

OR

The econometrical methodology is based on ***the Toda-Yamamoto procedure*** which was used with the purpose of analyzing the short-term causal relationship between the two variables. The main finding of the study is that there is no Granger causality relation between the variables for six countries and a one direction causal relation was identified for the remaining ones. (Extracted from the reference, will change after analysis)
