Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) is a substantial investment made by obtaining a lasting interest and expanding one’s business into a foreign country. FDI is generally for ameliorating the growth of an entire company and consequently, boosting the economy growth in the domestic country. In 2020, FDI tanked globally due to the COVID-19 pandemic, according to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. The total $859 billion global investment compares with $1.5 trillion the previous year (2019).

The foreign exchange market is the largest highly and liquid financial market in the world with worldwide average daily turnover around $5.3 trillion, which makes foreign exchange highly global trading asset. Foreign exchange forms the basis of dealings for trade and other monetary transactions between economies of the world. Foreign exchange market operates with heterogeneous participants comprises of central banks, commercial banks, companies, brokers, fund managers, speculators and individuals. Central banks regulate the market for smooth and orderly operations with a broader objective of economic and financial development. On the other hand, other participants try to minimise the potential risk with the best possible way and try to maximise the profit. Presences of high volatility make the exposure management challenge since the global capital is highly volatile and purely depends on the performances in the economic fundamentals. Moreover, country-specific and market-specific investors sentiments also influence the same
 
Foreign direct investments have been regarded in the last years by the governments of the developing countries as one of the best alternatives to fuel their economic growth. In these circumstances, identifying the main characteristics of a state that are important for foreign investors and also analyzing the influence of the foreign direct investments on the characteristics of an economy, has become of significant interest for the policymakers, the economists and also for the academic environment. Moreover, the foreign direct investments have been regarded by the authorities from the ex communist countries as being an important source for management skills, for new and better paid jobs and for products and services of an improved quality which could increase both the internal market and also the export potential of their economy. Among the determinants of the foreign direct investments identified by the literature, the macroeconomic stability is becoming, together with corruption, political stability and quality of legislation, more and more important in the nowadays conditions. Therefore studying such a linkage, between the inflows of foreign direct investments and the macroeconomic stability of a country, is of an increased importance today. The literature presents two main variables used as proxies for the macroeconomic stability, namely: the inflation rate and the employment/unemployment rate. Consequently, in the present study we have decided to use the unemployment rate as a proxy for the macroeconomic stability of an economy. The sample of countries included in the analysis consists of the latest thirteen member states of the European Union and the analyzed time period spans from 1991 until 2012. The paper will be further organized in four main sections: literature review and analysis background, methodology and data related issues, empirical results and finally conclusion.
